So let's have a look at S3 Inventory.
So the idea is that using an S3 Inventory operation,
you can list all the objects
as well as their corresponding metadata in your S3 bucket,
which is a better way than using an S3 list API operation
to list all your objects
and get all the associated metadata.
So some usage example
for S3 inventory include creating an audit
and reports on the replication
and the encryption status of all your objects.
So using this for example,
you can identify which objects are not encrypted.
You can get the number of objects in an S3 bucket,
or you can identify the total storage
of all the previous object versions of your bucket
because S3 Inventory can list all object versions.
So the output files is CSV, ORC or Apache Parquet,
and this inventory can be generated on a daily
or weekly basis.
All the data can be queried,
then using the famous tools you have in AWS
such as Amazon Athena, Redshift, Presto, Hive
and Spark, including that Presto, Hive
and Spark are not within AWS, it can be from outside.
And the use cases for inventory is going
to be business compliance and regulatory needs.
So let's go in the hands-on to see how it works.
So let's set up S3 inventory.
And for this I'm going to create a bucket
and the bucket name is going to inventory-stephane-demo,
something like this.
And then I will go ahead and just create this bucket.
So my bucket is not created and I can view the details.
And now I need to set up inventory
on another bucket of mine.
Then I picked one of my buckets,
so demo-stephane-s3-bucket-2020 which has some data in it,
so that's all that matters to me.
And I'm going to click on Management and then scroll down.
And at the very bottom I have Inventory configurations.
So I can create an inventory configuration right here,
I'll call it DemoInventory.
You can set up a prefix if you want to apply
to a second prefix, but we won't.
And this will include current version only,
but you can include all object versions if you wanted to.
And then the report detail should go in this account
and then you need to specify a destination for it.
So we can go into my s3
in s3-inventory-stephane-demo
which has just created before.
And then there is going to be a following statement
that will be added to the destination bucket policy
to allow Amazon S3 to place data in that bucket.
So here is the bucket policy that will be applied.
Then what do we want the frequency to be? So, daily.
And the first report will be delivered within 48 hours
or weekly as well as the the output format,
so CSV, ORC or Parquet
and CSV is the format you need to use,
if you plan to use S3 batch operations to,
or if you want to analyze the S3 inventory using Excel.
And if you use ORC and Parquet, then you can for example,
analyze it using a tool like Athena.
So this configuration is going to be enabled. Okay?
And we'll select CSV,
whether or not we want server that encryption,
so I can disable it for now.
And if you want additional fields for the reports,
you can have Size, Last modified, Storage class, ETag,
Multiple workload, Replication status,
Encryption, Bucket key status,
then whether or not they're Intelligent-tier
and the All Object Lock configurations.
So we're good to go.
So this bucket has not been found in the eu-west-1 region,
so I need to choose to recreate that buckets,
but in the same region that I'm in right now.
So let's go ahead and do this.
So I'll take this S3.
So this inventory buckets
and it's always good to have errors,
so that's why I always keep them on video.
So we'll delete it.
And as you can see, it shows that inventory has
to be done from within the same region.
So I will recreate this, but this time in eu-west-1
and then create my buckets.
And this is not going to work right now
because the old bucket is being deleted.
So let me pause for a second or I will just rename it,
demo-2, and this should work just fine.
My bucket is now created
and I will just add demo-2 in here
and we should be good to go.
Let's create this.
And now my inventory configuration is created.
So what I need to do now is to wait a little bit
for this inventory to be active.
And this could take up to 48 hours.
So I'll get back to you in 48 hours.
Okay, so I've left the inventory on for a few days now.
And if you go into the demo inventory bucket,
you can see that a folder has been created for every day.
So if I take any of these days,
as we can see, we get a manifest.checksum,
and a manifest.json.
And this contains metadata around the data itself.
So if we look at the manifest.json file
and we download it, that file manifest.json,
is going to show us the sourceBucket,
the destinationBucket,
the version of the manifest file,
the fileFormat,
which is CSV and the fileSchema.
So all the columns that are belonging into my CSV file,
as well as the files that correspond to this manifest.
As you can see, one file is in it.
This is this one right here, DemoInventory/data.
So DemoInventory/data, and then this key right here.
So let's go ahead and find that file right now.
So back in my folder, I go back to the DemoInventory
and then scroll down, find data.
And in here I have found all the files
that correspond to every single day.
So July 4th is this one.
So I will take this file,
but they should all be the same
because my bucket content has not changed.
And I'm going to save this file and extract it.
And so if we have a look at the content of the CSV file,
we can find the first column corresponds to the bucket name,
the second column corresponds to the files in it.
The third column is going to correspond
to a version ID of the files.
Then we get some true false information
around encryption, I guess,
some file size, dates and so on,
as well as the last column, which is going to be, sorry,
the type of encryption right here that we have, okay?
So this file contains really all the metadata
around all our S3 files,
which is very helpful if you wanna get a list
or if you want to get an encryption status and so on.
And when you're done with the hands-on,
please make sure to go to Management
and then to delete or disable this inventory configuration
because otherwise you will keep on running every single day.
So let's it for this lecture.
I hope you liked it
and I will see you in the next lecture.